[DOCS] Privileges Matrix for Detections Feature (#634)
elastic/security-docs: docs/getting-started/detections-req.asciidoc

IMPORTANT: After changing the `xpack.encryptedSavedObjects.encryptionKey` value
and restarting {kib}, you must restart all detection rules.

[discrete]
[[enable-and-access-detections]]
== Enable and Access Detections

> Enabling the Detections feature allows you to view and use the Detections page from within the Security app. You only need to complete this action once and can choose between enabling it for a single Kibana space or across multiple ones. Once the Detections feature is enabled, additional privileges are needed to use Detection rules and alerts. The table below explains how to enable the Detections feature and describes required privileges for viewing and using rules and alerts.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Enabling the Detections feature allows you to view and use the Detections page within the Security app. You only need to complete this action once and can choose between enabling it for a single Kibana space or across multiple ones. Once the Detections feature is enabled, additional privileges are needed to manage detection rules and alerts, described in the following table. 
```

NOTE: For instructions about using Machine Learning jobs and rules, refer to <<ml-requirements, Machine learning job and rule requirements>>.

[discrete]
[width="100%",options="header"]
|==============================================
|Action |Cluster Privileges |Index Privileges |Kibana Privileges

|Enable the Detections feature in your Kibana space
|The `manage` privilege

> a| * The `manage`, `write`,`read`, and `view_index_metadata` index privileges for the following system indices where <kib-space>` is the {kib} space name:

Reviewer: I think we can remove the first bullet. 

```suggestion
a| The `manage`, `write`,`read`, and `view_index_metadata` index privileges for the following system indices where <kib-space>` is the {kib} space name:
```

         ** `.siem-signals-<kib-space>`
         ** `.lists-<kib-space>`
         ** `.items-<kib-space>`
|{kib} space `All` privileges for the `Security` feature (see
{kibana-ref}/xpack-spaces.html#spaces-control-user-access[Feature access based on user privileges])

|Enable the Detections feature in all Kibana spaces
|The `manage` privilege

> a| * The `manage`, `write`,`read`, and `view_index_metadata` index privileges for the following system indices:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
a| The `manage`, `write`,`read`, and `view_index_metadata` index privileges for the following system indices:
```

         ** `.siem-signals-*`
         ** `.lists-*`

>          ** `.items-*` system indices.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
         ** `.items-*`
```

|{kib} space `All` privileges for the `Security` feature (see
{kibana-ref}/xpack-spaces.html#spaces-control-user-access[Feature access based on user privileges])

|Manage rules
| N/A

> a| * The `manage`, `write`,`read`, and `view_index_metadata` index privileges for the for the following system indices where <kib-space>` is the {kib} space name:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
a| The `manage`, `write`,`read`, and `view_index_metadata` index privileges for the for the following system indices where <kib-space>` is the {kib} space name:
```

         ** `.siem-signals-<kib-space>`
         ** `.lists-<kib-space>`
         ** `.items-<kib-space>`
|{kib} space `All` privileges for the `Security` feature (see
{kibana-ref}/xpack-spaces.html#spaces-control-user-access[Feature access based on user privileges])

|Manage alerts

> Note: Allows you to manage alerts, but not modify rules.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Note:** Allows you to manage alerts, but not modify rules.
```

|N/A

> a| * The `maintenance`, `write`,`read`, and `view_index_metadata` index privileges for the following system indices where <kib-space>` is the {kib} space name:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
a| The `maintenance`, `write`,`read`, and `view_index_metadata` index privileges for the following system indices where <kib-space>` is the {kib} space name:
```

IMPORTANT: After changing the `xpack.encryptedSavedObjects.encryptionKey` value
and restarting {kib}, you must restart all detection rules.

[discrete]
[[enable-and-access-detections]]
== Enable and Access Detections

> Enabling the Detections feature allows you to view and use the Detections page from within the Security app. You only need to complete this action once and can choose between enabling it for a single Kibana space or across multiple ones. Once the Detections feature is enabled, additional privileges are needed to use Detection rules and alerts, described in the following table.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Enabling the Detections feature allows you to view and use the Detections page from within the Security app. You only need to complete this action once and can choose between enabling it for a single Kibana space or across multiple ones. Once the Detections feature is enabled, additional privileges are needed to use detection rules and alerts, described in the following table.
```

> Enabling the Detections feature allows you to view and use the Detections page from within the Security app. You only need to complete this action once and can choose between enabling it for a single Kibana space or across multiple ones. Once the detections feature is enabled, additional privileges are needed to use Detection rules and alerts, described in the following table.

Reviewer 2: > You only need to complete this action once and can _choose between enabling it for a single Kibana space or across multiple ones._

Not sure I'm following the distinction here?  This action will need to be completed on each space they intend to enable detections, as there is no way to bulk setup multiple spaces via the UI (can be automated via the API though). Does 'choose between enabling...' mean here to "use this role and go to each space to complete setup"?

NOTE: For instructions about using Machine Learning jobs and rules, refer to <<ml-requirements, Machine learning job and rule requirements>>.

[discrete]
[width="100%",options="header"]
|==============================================
|Action |Cluster Privileges |Index Privileges |Kibana Privileges

|Enable the Detections feature in your Kibana space
|The `manage` privilege

> a|The `manage`, `write`,`read`, and `view_index_metadata` index privileges for the following system indices where <kib-space>` is the {kib} space name:

Reviewer: Let's make `<kib-space>` code text throughout. 

```suggestion
a|The `manage`, `write`,`read`, and `view_index_metadata` index privileges for the following system indices where `<kib-space>` is the {kib} space name:
```

* `.siem-signals-<kib-space>`
* `.lists-<kib-space>`
* `.items-<kib-space>`
|{kib} space `All` privileges for the `Security` feature (see
{kibana-ref}/xpack-spaces.html#spaces-control-user-access[Feature access based on user privileges])

|Enable the Detections feature in all Kibana spaces
|The `manage` privilege
a|The `manage`, `write`,`read`, and `view_index_metadata` index privileges for the following system indices:

* `.siem-signals-*`
* `.lists-*`
* `.items-*`
|{kib} space `All` privileges for the `Security` feature (see

> {kibana-ref}/xpack-spaces.html#spaces-control-user-access[Feature access based on user privileges])

Reviewer 2: Ahhh, I think I see the distinction from above. Breaking out the `per space` vs `all space` access to alerts. This makes sense to me, but just note that even with the above `all space` configuration the user will need to go to the security app of each space to complete the `setup` of the detection engine (creating the index/ILM, etc).

|Manage rules
| N/A

> a|The `manage`, `write`,`read`, and `view_index_metadata` index privileges for the for the following system indices where <kib-space>` is the {kib} space name:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
a|The `manage`, `write`,`read`, and `view_index_metadata` index privileges for the for the following system indices where `<kib-space>` is the {kib} space name:
```

* `.siem-signals-<kib-space>`
* `.lists-<kib-space>`
* `.items-<kib-space>`
|{kib} space `All` privileges for the `Security` feature (see
{kibana-ref}/xpack-spaces.html#spaces-control-user-access[Feature access based on user privileges])

|Manage alerts

**Note**: Allows you to manage alerts, but not modify rules.
|N/A

> a|The `maintenance`, `write`,`read`, and `view_index_metadata` index privileges for the following system indices where <kib-space>` is the {kib} space name:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
a|The `maintenance`, `write`,`read`, and `view_index_metadata` index privileges for the following system indices where `<kib-space>` is the {kib} space name:
```

[discrete]
[[enable-detections-ui]]
== Enable and access detections

> To use the Detections page, the Detections feature must be enabled and your role must have access to rules and alerts. If your role does not have the cluster and index privileges needed to enable this feature, you can request someone who has these privileges to turn it on for you. The following table describes the required privileges to access the Detections page - including rules and alerts.

Reviewer 2: Similar to my previous comment below, I think it's worth explicitly calling out that it's not just these privileges that are necessary to enable the Detections feature, but also that the user with the specified privileges _must visit the Security Application at least once_ for each space they'd like to enable the feature. We've had some [discuss posts](https://discuss.elastic.co/t/cant-access-detections-from-a-different-space/272118/9) where this aspect of the configuration wasn't entirely clear, so would be worth highlighting in a tip/info callout.
